docker - to check all available docker commands

docker version - to show docker version

docker info - displays system-wide information

docker pull - to pull the docker image from docker hub repository

docker build - to build docker image from Dockerfile

docker run - run a container from a docker image

docker commit - to commit a change in container file or create new Docker image

docker ps - list all running containers. Add -a flag to list all containers (running & exited)

docker start - to start a docker container

docker stop - to stop a docker container

docker logs - to view logs for a docker container

Docker rename - to rename Docker container

Docker rm - to remove Docker container. Stop it first and then remove it.

Image Commands

Docker build - to build Docker image from Dockerfile.

Docker pull - to pull Docker image from Docker Hub Repository/registry.

Docker tag - to add tag to Docker image

Docker images - to list Docker images

Docker push - to push Docker images to repository.   

Docker history - to show history of Docker image

Docker inspect - to show complete information in JSON format.

Docker save - to also save our existing Docker image   

Docker import - create Docker image from tarball

Docker export - to export existing Docker container

Docker load - to load Docker image from file or archives

Docker rmi - to remove Docker images

Container Commands

Docker start - to start a Docker container

Docker stop - to stop a running Docker container

Docker restart - to restart container

Docker pause - to pause a running container

Docker run - creates a Docker container from Docker image

Docker ps - to list Docker containers

Docker exec - to access the shell of Docker container

Docker logs - to view logs of Docker container   

Docker rename - to rename Docker container

Docker rm - to remove Docker container

Docker inspect - Docker container info command

Docker attach - attach terminal to running container

Docker kill - to stop and remove Docker car containers

Docker cp - to copy files or folders b/w a container and from local filesystems

Compose Commands

Docker-compose build - build Docker compose file

Docker-compose up - to run Docker compose file

Docker-compose ls - to list Docker images declared inside Docker compose file

Docker-compose start - to start containers which are already created using Docker compose file

Docker-compose run - to run one of applications inside Docker compose yaml

Docker-compose rm - to remove Docker containers from Docker compose.

Docker-compose ps - to check Docker container status from Docker compose.   

Volume Commands

Docker volume create - to create Docker volume

Docker volume inspect - to inspect Docker volume

Docker volume rm - to remove Docker volume.

Docker Hub Commands   

Docker search ubuntu - to search Docker image

Docker pull ubuntu - to pull image from Docker Hub.

Docker push forstechx/node-todo-docker - push the Docker image again.

Docker logout - to logout from Docker Hub registry.

Logs & Monitoring Commands 

Docker ps -a - to show running & stopped containers

Docker logs - to show Docker container logs

Docker events - to get all events of Docker container

Docker top - to show running processes in Docker container   

Docker stats - to check CPU, memory & I/O usage

Docker port - to show Docker container's public ports

Networking Commands

Docker network create - to create Docker network

Docker network ls - to list Docker networks

Docker network inspect - to view network configuration details

